README.md, before:

## What is ansible-fail2ban? [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/nickjj/ansible-fail2ban.png)](http://travis-ci.org/nickjj/ansible-fail2ban)

It is an [ansible](http://www.ansible.com/home) role to install and configure fail2ban.

### What problem does it solve and why is it useful?

Security is important and fail2ban is an excellent tool to harden your server with minimal or even no configuration.

## Role variables

Below is a list of default values along with a description of what they do.

```
# Which log level should it be output as?
# 1 = ERROR, 2 = WARN, 3 = INFO, 4 = DEBUG
fail2ban_loglevel: 3

# Where should log outputs be sent to?
# SYSLOG, STDERR, STDOUT, file
fail2ban_logtarget: /var/log/fail2ban.log

# Where should the socket be created?
fail2ban_socket: /var/run/fail2ban/fail2ban.sock

# Which IP address, CIDR mark or DNS host should be ignored?
fail2ban_ignoreip: 127.0.0.1/8

# How long in seconds should the ban last for?
fail2ban_bantime: 600

# How many times can they try before getting banned?
fail2ban_maxretry: 3

# How should the file changes be detected?
# gamin, polling, auto
fail2ban_backend: polling

# Where should e-mail reports be sent to?
fail2ban_destemail: root@localhost

# How should the ban be applied?
# iptables, iptables-new, iptables-multiport, shorewall, etc.
fail2ban_banaction: iptables-multiport

# What e-mail action should be used?
# sendmail or mail
fail2ban_mta: sendmail

# What should the default protocol be?
fail2ban_protocol: tcp

# Which chain would the JUMPs be added into iptables-*?
fail2ban_chain: INPUT

# What should the default ban action be?
# action_, action_mw, action_mwl
fail2ban_action: action_

# What services should fail2ban monitor?
# You can define fail2ban_services as an empty string to not monitor anything.
# You can define multiple services as a standard yaml list.
fail2ban_services:
    # The name of the service
    # REQUIRED.
  - name: ssh

    # Is it enabled?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to "true" (must be a string).
    enabled: "true"

    # What port does the service use?
    # Separate multiple ports with a comma, no spaces.
    # REQUIRED.
    port: ssh

    # What protocol does the service use?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to tcp.
    protocol: tcp

    # What filter should it use?
    # REQUIRED.
    filter: sshd

    # Which log path should it monitor?
    # REQUIRED.
    logpath: /var/log/auth.log

    # How many times can they try before getting banned?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to 6.
    maxretry: 6

    # How many times can they try before getting banned?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to the default setting listed above.
    action: action_

    # How many times can they try before getting banned?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to the default setting listed above.
    banaction: iptables-multiport
```

## Example playbook

For the sake of this example let's assume you have a group called **app** and you have a typical `site.yml` file.

To use this role edit your `site.yml` file to look something like this:

```
---
- name: ensure app servers are configured
- hosts: app

  roles:
    - { role: nickjj.fail2ban, tags: fail2ban }
```

Let's say you want to edit a few values, you can do this by opening or creating `group_vars/app.yml` which is located relative to your `inventory` directory and then making it look something like this:

```
---
fail2ban_services:
  - name: ssh
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd
    logpath: /var/log/auth.log
  - name: postfix
    port: smtp,ssmtp
    filter: postfix
    logpath: /var/log/mail.log
```

## Installation

`$ ansible-galaxy install nickjj.fail2ban`

## Requirements

Tested on ubuntu 12.04 LTS but it should work on other versions that are similar.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add a section linking to the ansible galaxy

README.md, after:

## What is ansible-fail2ban? [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/nickjj/ansible-fail2ban.png)](http://travis-ci.org/nickjj/ansible-fail2ban)

It is an [ansible](http://www.ansible.com/home) role to install and configure fail2ban.

### What problem does it solve and why is it useful?

Security is important and fail2ban is an excellent tool to harden your server with minimal or even no configuration.

## Role variables

Below is a list of default values along with a description of what they do.

```
# Which log level should it be output as?
# 1 = ERROR, 2 = WARN, 3 = INFO, 4 = DEBUG
fail2ban_loglevel: 3

# Where should log outputs be sent to?
# SYSLOG, STDERR, STDOUT, file
fail2ban_logtarget: /var/log/fail2ban.log

# Where should the socket be created?
fail2ban_socket: /var/run/fail2ban/fail2ban.sock

# Which IP address, CIDR mark or DNS host should be ignored?
fail2ban_ignoreip: 127.0.0.1/8

# How long in seconds should the ban last for?
fail2ban_bantime: 600

# How many times can they try before getting banned?
fail2ban_maxretry: 3

# How should the file changes be detected?
# gamin, polling, auto
fail2ban_backend: polling

# Where should e-mail reports be sent to?
fail2ban_destemail: root@localhost

# How should the ban be applied?
# iptables, iptables-new, iptables-multiport, shorewall, etc.
fail2ban_banaction: iptables-multiport

# What e-mail action should be used?
# sendmail or mail
fail2ban_mta: sendmail

# What should the default protocol be?
fail2ban_protocol: tcp

# Which chain would the JUMPs be added into iptables-*?
fail2ban_chain: INPUT

# What should the default ban action be?
# action_, action_mw, action_mwl
fail2ban_action: action_

# What services should fail2ban monitor?
# You can define fail2ban_services as an empty string to not monitor anything.
# You can define multiple services as a standard yaml list.
fail2ban_services:
    # The name of the service
    # REQUIRED.
  - name: ssh

    # Is it enabled?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to "true" (must be a string).
    enabled: "true"

    # What port does the service use?
    # Separate multiple ports with a comma, no spaces.
    # REQUIRED.
    port: ssh

    # What protocol does the service use?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to tcp.
    protocol: tcp

    # What filter should it use?
    # REQUIRED.
    filter: sshd

    # Which log path should it monitor?
    # REQUIRED.
    logpath: /var/log/auth.log

    # How many times can they try before getting banned?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to 6.
    maxretry: 6

    # How many times can they try before getting banned?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to the default setting listed above.
    action: action_

    # How many times can they try before getting banned?
    # OPTIONAL: Defaults to the default setting listed above.
    banaction: iptables-multiport
```

## Example playbook

For the sake of this example let's assume you have a group called **app** and you have a typical `site.yml` file.

To use this role edit your `site.yml` file to look something like this:

```
---
- name: ensure app servers are configured
- hosts: app

  roles:
    - { role: nickjj.fail2ban, tags: fail2ban }
```

Let's say you want to edit a few values, you can do this by opening or creating `group_vars/app.yml` which is located relative to your `inventory` directory and then making it look something like this:

```
---
fail2ban_services:
  - name: ssh
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd
    logpath: /var/log/auth.log
  - name: postfix
    port: smtp,ssmtp
    filter: postfix
    logpath: /var/log/mail.log
```

## Installation

`$ ansible-galaxy install nickjj.fail2ban`

## Requirements

Tested on ubuntu 12.04 LTS but it should work on other versions that are similar.

## Ansible galaxy

You can find it on the official [ansible galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/list#/roles/1079) if you want to rate it.

## License

MIT
